All right, now let's talk about factories, so a factory is well, it can be a class or it can be a
method which produces something.
And we're going to take a look at a rather unusual approach that the official language allows you to
have.
So let's suppose that what we're going to produce is a country.
So we're going to have a type country and we're going to be making either the US of a workplace or the
United Kingdom.
There we go.
So what we can do and this is a discriminating union, by the way.
So essentially behind the scenes, of course, you have a class called country and then you have classes,
USA and UK.
But of course, F Sharp makes it so that these things are they appear to you as if they were either
members or something to that effect.
So somewhat different.
Now what you can do with a discriminated union is you can give it a member.
So just like giving an enum an extension method, for example, here what you can do is you can give
it a member so you can say type country with and you can have a static member called create, for example.
So that's going to be a function which is going to take a string and is going to use that string to
create one of those two countries.
So if somebody says USA or if somebody says America and I know it's not fair to equate American USA,
then we're going to return the USA.
Otherwise, if somebody says UK or if somebody says England, and once again, I know that England isn't
the only part of the UK, then we're going to return the UK.
And if somebody asks for something else, then we're just going to crash fair with no such country because
apparently only two countries exist on this planet.
So this is how you would define what is effectively a factory method.
But it's a factory method which is defined on not a single class, but behind the scenes it's defined
on the hierarchy of classes.
So you have a country and then you have different types of country.
You have USA and UK.
So of course, you have to be aware of how this functions in F Sharp, as well as how this Kompas into
Ehle, because of course, inside the intermediate language, there is no explicit support for discriminating
unions.
It's all implemented with classes anyway.
So these effectively become a base class and a bunch of inherited classes like so.
So this is one of the ways in which you can actually construct a country.
So in this case, let me actually show you how this would work and let's try to be careful to have all
the entry point and all the specified correctly, because otherwise nothing will work.
So let me rgv equals.
So what you can do here is you can, for example, make the UK so that UK equals well you can do country
in the create.
Of course that's that's one possibility.
So you can say country don't create and then you can say UK and then this way you will actually create
the United Kingdom and then you can bet you can, for example, print its capital.
Of course we don't have any support for capital yet.
So let's suppose you want to have support for capitals.
You want the support, you want to provide information about the capital of each country.
Now, one way you can do this is you can start, you know, expanding the Inam cases or the discriminated
union cases.
But there is a completely different way.
And that way is to simply augment, to sort of provide effectively another factory, which will give
you this information.
So what we can do and this is going to be a bit crazy, but we're going to define a type called let's
say I Country Info, I country info, which is going to have an abstract member called Capital, which
is going to be a screen.
So what we're saying is that everyone that implements I country info has to provide a capital of some
kind.
Now typically in the CCAR paradigm, what you would expect is you would expect classes which implement
this.
But in the FSA paradigm, you don't really have to you don't have to do it.
So what you can do instead is you can have something like the following.
So now we're going to have a factory or factory method or factory function.
How are you on the call?
It called make.
So we have let make country equals.
So here once again, the idea is that somebody is providing a country like USA or UK, for example,
and they're getting an eye country info with a capital.
So here I can match country with and now we can match against the different discriminating union cases.
So something gives us USA.
Then here we can do something very interesting.
So remember I said that in the c sharp language you would typically inherit from a country info?
Well, in the F sharp language you don't have to what you can.
Do is you can just do a bunch of curly braces and here you can say new high country info and then you
can specify all those missing members.
So all those abstract members can be implemented right here.
So I can say new eye contact info with and here I can say no.
Eckstut capital equals Washington.
Washington like so and similarly for the U.K., for example, I can do the same thing, so here I can
say New I country info with no X capital equals London like so.
And this would allow me to effectively do the following.
So I can say, for example, that USA equals Make Country USA and this would give me an I member in
my country infrastructure, which would have Washington as the capital so I can print it so I can actually
go ahead and print Štefan USA dot capital, the capital of the United States.
So that's actually run this just to see that it does in fact function, which hopefully runs this time.
My previous few demos have been a bit scratchy.
So here where you can see that the capital is in fact Washington.
So what is the take away from this demo?
There's nothing particularly magical here.
So the first thing is to realize that when you have a discriminated union, you can also give it members
and you can give it a member like create, which basically makes it a factory method or factory function
for that discriminated union.
So here in my case, but in particular in this case, what I'm doing is I'm expecting a string.
And one annoying thing that you'll find, and this is really annoying, especially coming from the Sea
World, is that there is no sort of name argument here.
There is no sort of switch name here and nothing like that.
So there is no match name instead.
It's kind of implicit.
So the first argument is implicit and that is the argument that gets checked against the different cases.
And then we return the case from the discriminated union.
So that is somewhat unpleasant, but I'm sure you can live with it.
And it's it's somewhat readable.
I would say there is some loss of information here because obviously you would expect an argument because
that argument is being checked here and here, respectively.
But, yeah, we've lost that.
So the second thing that I wanted to demonstrate is this idea that you could have a type which has an
abstract member.
So think of it like an abstract class or an interface, and you end up being able to create a new kind
of anonymous instances of it.
So effectively here you create an anonymous instance which implements all the missing pieces.
So the idea is so long as you implement the missing pieces, you can actually return this thing.
So here we basically return effectively a new type where the member is satisfied by this expression.
So in this case, we return Washington, in this case, we return London.
So once again, this is an approach which is fundamentally different to what SEECP does.
And hopefully it highlights the idea that it is possible to create functions in a slightly different
way.